[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So,
Mongo has this sophisticated query syntax.
I'm going to go through this one,
actually this one's kind of long.
But I need to go to it.
I'm gonna go through it relatively
quicker than I normally do, so
we can get started with the exercise.
That way you guys can get out of
here relatively earlier time and
not be here all day.
So I'm going to go through this,
the notes, relatively quicker so
we can hop right into the example, which
is actually going to be kind of tough.
So, Mongo has a sophisticated query
syntax that is full of options.
Actually, it has too many options for
me to even list here.
When I was writing this,
I was worried about what to show you,
what not to show you, cuz there's so
many things and there's like five
different ways to do the same thing.
So I was just like I don't
even know what's the best way.
So there's just too many things to list so
I just listed the one that I thought was
the simplest and the one that I used the
most and like the foundation of the rest.
So using the mongoose model we have a few
ways to ask mongo about what data we want.
So we did this before, kind of,
inside of the mongo shell,
we were like db.the name
of the collection.find.
That was the native mongo implementation,
this is the mongoose implementation
that just calls that internally.
So when I say model, I'm talking about the
name of the model, so this is the model.
This thing that's getting exported,
that's the model.
So in this case it would be post, or
whatever you called it
when you required it.
So this is the model.
So Model.find is a method
that we can call.
And what it does is,
it can take a few things, but
the most important thing is that
the first object you pass in,
it's just like an object describing
the stuff that you want to find.
So in the case of posts,
if we said posts.find,
actually I'll just do it down here so
you can see what it looks like.
>> Speaker 1: So down here if I were like,
post.find, the object I can
pass in is the first argument
is gonna describe the post
that I'm looking for.
So, I wanna find the post who's name is,
or title,
sorry.
>> Speaker 1: Who's title is whatever.
So because our titles are unique
this is only gonna return one.
So then I can use a callback,
which is a node style callback,
which takes the error.
A possible error is the first argument.
And then a possible document
is the second argument, so
the document is returned
from the database.
So there I will have that stuff.
Alternatively, most of these mango or
mango query return promises.
So like I say .then instead.
There's also another
way to execute this but
we're gonna talk about that later cuz
that one's a little more difficult.
But that's the basics of the find method.
So the find method is always
gonna return an array.
Even if it finds one.
Even if it doesn't find anything,
it'll be an array.
But if it doesn't find
anything it'll be empty.
Nothing will be in the array.
But find always returns an array or
an error.
So above is a basic example
of how we can query Mongo for
a specific model using the find method.
We can pass a query object to
specify what we're looking for.
The object is empty.
So I have an empty object here.
So that means we want to get
every single thing on that model.
That means give me
everything on that model.
Everything.
I think you can even
just not use the object.
You can just not put anything in there.
The second argument is
a node style callback.
In this example it's a node style
callback with either an error or
the documents that gonna be retrieved.
Most queries on mongoose return a promise.
And you can look at the docs.
It'll show you some more stuff.
>> Speaker 1: So,
here's another utility method about
it a Model.findById if it is give
an object ID it will find
that one thing or not.
So, that you return an error will
either return that document or
it will just return nothing, no error but
it also didn't find anything.
>> Speaker 1: So this one's very helpful
for those PUT/DELETE/GET one routes,
because they all use the ID property.
So if you wanna put something,
you need an ID so
you gotta find that thing first If you
wanna delete something you need an ID.
So this method will come in handy for
that, find by ID.
Cuz we'll be given the ID on the URL.
Yup.
>> Speaker 2: They're wondering why you're
calling next if error's true.
>> Speaker 1: So
the reason I'm doing this,
so this is gonna be.
This is a hint of, this query's
wrapped inside of a route callback,
so we have access to request,
response, and next.
So because of this function,
is asynchronous, if we want node
to know about this error, and
we wanna be able to catch it,
we actually need to pass it into next.
Whereas this error before,
but all synchronous, so
they will always pass
down through the chain.
This is gonna be in a completely
different call stack.
So if you're familiar with angular,
and they invented, how it works,
this functioning is happening
at a completely different
call stack than this
execution defined by id.
So we have to call next to pass in order
to to pass it down to our air handle or
it will never get handled.
It is a completely different call site.
It will just stop and break the server.
So this is why the next is awesome.
>> Speaker 2: Where is next coming from?
The main parameter, or argument?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, so
all this is wrapped
inside of one of these.
I should have just written it.
It's in one of these callback right here.
So when you see these examples here,
they're inside of one of these functions.
That's why I'm able to call response and
next.
Sorry about that.
Next is not coming Mongoose,
it's coming from Express.
That's the express is
next in the middle here.
So we'll be replacing all this stuff.
With this stuff.
>> Speaker 1: So
that's how you find an ID,
that's how you find all of something.
So those are two methods you
will definitely be using.
Here's a few ways to
create a new document.
There's probably more,
but here's a few ways.
So we could say var whatever
equals a new model that we have.
And then we pass in the object
to create the new model.
And all you have to do is call it dot save
on that instance, which also takes a notes
dot call back with either an error or
the document that got saved.
And if we save it, just send it back.
Another way to do it is use the dot
create shortcut on the actual model,
which takes in the thing you want
to create or many of those things.
And then a node.callback as well,
same thing.
And then the third was to do
it is if you can just say
new model without passing in an object.
And then add the properties
using the dot notation.
And then still call save.
All three will do the same thing
Is calling new dog internally,
then it's calling save for you.
It's just doing both,
whereas we're doing it manually here.
We're calling new dog, we're adding
the properties then we're calling
save.
>> Speaker 1: Those are three ways to
create a method.
>> Speaker 3: You lost me.
>> Speaker 1: I lost you?
Alright.
>> Speaker 3: Where
did I get a function called save from?
>> Speaker 1: So
new doc, when you make a new model.
I'll just.
Let's just do it in here.
>> Speaker 2: Is
that schema.
>> Speaker 1: Yep.
THat's a model.
>> Speaker 2: Export from the schema.
>> Speaker 1: Exactly, so
this is like one of our categories or
our posts or our user.
So we call them new user and new post
that's going to return an instance.
In this case, it's the doc,
And now we can say dog.save.
So it's like if I were to come back into
user, I guess, I deleted it didn't I,
so I could just say user.save.
>> Speaker 1: The instance
of a model is called a document.
And all documents have
a save method on them.
>> Speaker 1: It's an atomic operation.
So if you call a .save on the document
go right to the data base.Doesn"t
matter where that document is
inside of node it will right to it.
It's atomic, so three ways to
do the same thing you can pick your
favor.
>> Speaker 1: So
there's a way how to update something.
So we can say model.findbyidandupdate.
That's a real method you'll notice that
Mongooses methods are actually pretty
verbose, they say exactly what they mean.
I'm going to findbyIdanupdate So
if you give it an ID, and
then you give it the objects with the new
properties that you want to update too.
What it'll do is,
first it will go see if it can find
a document on this model, with this ID.
If it does find it,
it will update these properties.
>> Speaker 1: And then an error callback.
The thing to know about this though
is this thing called upsert.
So by default if you do this it will
update the document to these properties,
but it will also actually just
update the document to just be this.
It will just literally be this and
all the other properties that
were there before will be gone.
So that's not what we want.
So we want to use something
else to get around that.
I'm not going to show you how to do that.
I want you guys to figure that out.
Or unless you ask me when I walk
around then I'll have to show you, but
[LAUGH] I don't want to
give you all the answers.
It's just there's another method
that allows you to do that or
there's like two or
three other ways to do it.
If you literary looked it up,
in like one second you would find out.
And then of course, error style callback.
Same thing.
>> Speaker 1: So
like i said,
most of the methods look very similar.
Start off with something like find,
you're passing some type of query object
Maybe an optional update object and
then there's a callback.
Alright?
So there are some advantages,
uses, and features as well.
Along with performing
methods on the model.
We can also use the actual document to
do things like I was saying before.
We were talking about the dot
save method on the document.
The document also ahs a dot remove
method so it can remove itself.
So if you had a instance of a document and
you wanna delete it,
you can just say document.remove, and
it'll be like, okay, I'll go away.
It'll either throw an error or
the removed document.
So this is a quick way
to delete something.
There's also a find by id and remove,
or delete, to do those things,
as well.
>> Speaker 1: So
again, this is possible because the actual
documents returned from mongo are not
just objects but instances of a collection
and have specific properties and methods
that allow us to operate on it and for it
to be able to write back to the database.
The reason I emphasize this is
because you're going to use this.
You're going to have a document
that's created somewhere else and
you're going to pass it
to another function.
And then you're going to figure
out how do I remove this thing?
How do I delete this?
How do I update this?
And you're going to want to
query the database again.
Your going to want to say I will
just do a model dot find and
find the document again and do it here but
you already have a document there so
just know that you can do
these methods on the document.
You don't have to accrue
the database again.